<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Federalist Papers</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-readerview.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      
      
      
      <h1><span class="title">FEDERALIST No. 13</span></h1>
      
      <h2><span class="subtitle">Advantage of the Union in Respect to Economy in Government</span></h2>
      
      <h3><span classe="source">For the Independent Journal.</span></h3>
      
      <h3><span class="author">HAMILTON</span></h3>
      
      
      <span class="address" about="">To the People of the State of New York:</span>
      <span class="p">As CONNECTED with the subject of revenue, we may with propriety consider that of
         economy. <span class="taxation" about="elitist">The money saved from one object may be usefully
            applied to another, and there will be so much the less to be drawn from the
            pockets of the people.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">If the States are united under one government, there will
            be but one national civil list to support; if they are divided into several
            confederacies, there will be as many different national civil lists to be
            provided for--and each of them, as to the principal departments, coextensive
            with that which would be necessary for a government of the whole.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The entire separation of the States into thirteen
            unconnected sovereignties is a project too extravagant and too replete with
            danger to have many advocates.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="neither">The ideas of men who speculate upon the dismemberment of
            the empire seem generally turned toward three confederacies--one consisting of
            the four Northern, another of the four Middle, and a third of the five Southern
            States.</span> There is little probability that there would be a greater
         number. <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither">According to this distribution, each
            confederacy would comprise an extent of territory larger than that of the
            kingdom of Great Britain.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">No well-informed man will suppose that the affairs of
            such a confederacy can be properly regulated by a government less comprehensive
            in its organs or institutions than that which has been proposed by the
            convention.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">When the dimensions of a State attain to a certain
            magnitude, it requires the same energy of government and the same forms of
            administration which are requisite in one of much greater extent.</span>
         This idea admits not of precise demonstration, because there is no rule by which we
         can measure the momentum of civil power necessary to the government of any given
         number of individuals; <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">but when we consider
            that the island of Britain, nearly commensurate with each of the supposed
            confederacies, contains about eight millions of people, and when we reflect upon
            the degree of authority required to direct the passions of so large a society to
            the public good, we shall see no reason to doubt that the like portion of power
            would be sufficient to perform the same task in a society far more
            numerous.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">Civil power, properly organized and exerted, is capable
            of diffusing its force to a very great extent; and can, in a manner, reproduce
            itself in every part of a great empire by a judicious arrangement of subordinate
            institutions.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">The supposition that each confederacy into which the
            States would be likely to be divided would require a government not less
            comprehensive than the one proposed, will be strengthened by another
            supposition, more probable than that which presents us with three confederacies
            as the alternative to a general Union.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">If we attend carefully to geographical and commercial
            considerations, in conjunction with the habits and prejudices of the different
            States, we shall be led to conclude that in case of disunion they will most
            naturally league themselves under two governments.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither">The four Eastern States, from all the causes that
            form the links of national sympathy and connection, may with certainty be
            expected to unite. New York, situated as she is, would never be unwise enough to
            oppose a feeble and unsupported flank to the weight of that
            confederacy.</span> There are other obvious reasons that would
         facilitate her accession to it. <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither">New Jersey is too
            small a State to think of being a frontier, in opposition to this still more
            powerful combination; nor do there appear to be any obstacles to her admission
            into it. Even Pennsylvania would have strong inducements to join the Northern
            league.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">An active foreign commerce, on the basis of her own
            navigation, is her true policy, and coincides with the opinions and dispositions
            of her citizens.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">The more Southern States, from various
            circumstances, may not think themselves much interested in the encouragement of
            navigation.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">They may prefer a system which would give unlimited scope to
            all nations to be the carriers as well as the purchasers of their
            commodities.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither">Pennsylvania may not choose to confound her
            interests in a connection so adverse to her policy. As she must at all events be
            a frontier, she may deem it most consistent with her safety to have her exposed
            side turned towards the weaker power of the Southern, rather than towards the
            stronger power of the Northern, Confederacy.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">This would give her the fairest chance to avoid
            being the Flanders of America. Whatever may be the determination of
            Pennsylvania, if the Northern Confederacy includes New Jersey, there is no
            likelihood of more than one confederacy to the south of that
            State.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">Nothing can be more evident than that the thirteen States
            will be able to support a national government better than one half, or one
            third, or any number less than the whole.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> This reflection must have great weight in
            obviating that objection to the proposed plan, which is founded on the principle
            of expense; an objection, however, which, when we come to take a nearer view of
            it, will appear in every light to stand on mistaken
            ground.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="trade" about="elitist">If, in addition to the consideration of a plurality of civil
            lists, we take into view the number of persons who must necessarily be employed
            to guard the inland communication between the different confederacies against
            illicit trade, and who in time will infallibly spring up out of the necessities
            of revenue;</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">and if we also take into view the military establishments
            which it has been shown would unavoidably result from the jealousies and
            conflicts of the several nations into which the States would be
            divided,</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">we shall clearly discover that a separation would be not
            less injurious to the economy, than to the tranquillity, commerce, revenue, and
            liberty of every part.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="closing" about="">PUBLIUS.</span>
      
      
      </body>
</html>