<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Federalist Papers</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-readerview.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      
      
      
      <h1><span class="title">FEDERALIST No. 11</span></h1>
      
      <h2><span class="subtitle">The Utility of the Union in Respect to Commercial Relations and a
            Navy</span></h2>
      
      <h3><span classe="source">For the Independent Journal.</span></h3>
      
      <h3><span class="author">HAMILTON</span></h3>
      
      
      <span class="address" about="">To the People of the State of New York:</span>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">THE importance of the Union, in a commercial light, is one
            of those points about which there is least room to entertain a difference of
            opinion, and which has, in fact, commanded the most general assent of men who
            have any acquaintance with the subject.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">This applies as well to our intercourse with foreign
            countries as with each other.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">There are appearances to authorize a supposition that
            the adventurous spirit, which distinguishes the commercial character of America,
            has already excited uneasy sensations in several of the maritime powers of
            Europe.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">They seem to be apprehensive of our too great interference in
            that carrying trade, which is the support of their navigation and the foundation
            of their naval strength.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">Those of them which have colonies in America look
            forward to what this country is capable of becoming, with painful
            solicitude.</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">They foresee the dangers that may threaten their American
            dominions from the neighborhood of States, which have all the dispositions, and
            would possess all the means, requisite to the creation of a powerful
            marine.</span> Impressions of this kind will naturally indicate the policy
         of fostering divisions among us, and of depriving us, as far as possible, of an
         ACTIVE COMMERCE in our own bottoms. <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">This would answer
            the threefold purpose of preventing our interference in their navigation, of
            monopolizing the profits of our trade, and of clipping the wings by which we
            might soar to a dangerous greatness.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither"> Did not prudence forbid the detail, it would not
            be difficult to trace, by facts, the workings of this policy to the cabinets of
            ministers.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">If we continue united, we may counteract a policy so
            unfriendly to our prosperity in a variety of ways.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">By prohibitory regulations, extending, at the same time,
            throughout the States, we may oblige foreign countries to bid against each
            other, for the privileges of our markets.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">This assertion will not appear chimerical to those who are
            able to appreciate the importance of the markets of three millions of
            people--increasing in rapid progression, for the most part exclusively addicted
            to agriculture, and likely from local circumstances to remain so--to any
            manufacturing nation</span>; <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">and the immense
            difference there would be to the trade and navigation of such a nation, between
            a direct communication in its own ships, and an indirect conveyance of its
            products and returns, to and from America, in the ships of another
            country.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">Suppose, for instance, we had a government in America,
            capable of excluding Great Britain <span class="parenthesis" about="">with whom we have at present no treaty of
               commerce</span> from all our ports; what would be the probable operation of this step
            upon her politics?</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">Would it not enable us to negotiate, with the fairest prospect
            of success, for commercial privileges of the most valuable and extensive kind,
            in the dominions of that kingdom?</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither">When these questions have been asked, upon other
            occasions, they have received a plausible, but not a solid or satisfactory
            answer.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">It has been said that prohibitions on our part would
            produce no change in the system of Britain, because she could prosecute her
            trade with us through the medium of the Dutch, who would be her immediate
            customers and paymasters for those articles which were wanted for the supply of
            our markets.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">But would not her navigation be materially injured by the loss
            of the important advantage of being her own carrier in that trade?</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">Would not the principal part of its profits be
            intercepted by the Dutch, as a compensation for their agency and
            risk?</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">Would not the mere circumstance of freight occasion a
            considerable deduction?</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">Would not so circuitous an intercourse facilitate the
            competitions of other nations, by enhancing the price of British commodities in
            our markets, and by transferring to other hands the management of this
            interesting branch of the British commerce?</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">A mature consideration of the objects suggested by
            these questions will justify a belief that the real disadvantages to Britain
            from such a state of things, conspiring with the pre-possessions of a great part
            of the nation in favor of the American trade,</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">and with the importunities of the West India
            islands,</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">would produce a relaxation in her present system, and would
            let us into the enjoyment of privileges in the markets of those islands
            elsewhere, from which our trade would derive the most substantial
            benefits.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">Such a point gained from the British government, and which
            could not be expected without an equivalent in exemptions and immunities in our
            markets, would be likely to have a correspondent effect on the conduct of other
            nations, who would not be inclined to see themselves altogether supplanted in
            our trade.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">A further resource for influencing the conduct of
            European nations toward us, in this respect, would arise from the establishment
            of a federal navy.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">There can be no doubt that the continuance of the Union
            under an efficient government would put it in our power, at a period not very
            distant,</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">to create a navy which, if it could not vie with those of
            the great maritime powers, would at least be of respectable weight if thrown
            into the scale of either of two contending parties.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">This would be more peculiarly the case in relation to
            operations in the West Indies.</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">A few ships of the line, sent opportunely to the
            reinforcement of either side, would often be sufficient to decide the fate of a
            campaign, on the event of which interests of the greatest magnitude were
            suspended.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">Our position is, in this respect, a most commanding
            one.</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">And if to this consideration we add that of the usefulness
            of supplies from this country, in the prosecution of military operations in the
            West Indies,</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">it will readily be perceived that a situation so
            favorable would enable us to bargain with great advantage for commercial
            privileges.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">A price would be set not only upon our friendship, but
            upon our neutrality.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">By a steady adherence to the Union we may
            hope</span>, <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">erelong, to become the arbiter
            of Europe in America, and to be able to incline the balance of European
            competitions in this part of the world as our interest may
            dictate.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">But in the reverse of this eligible situation, we shall
            discover that the rivalships of the parts would make them checks upon each
            other, and would frustrate all the tempting advantages which nature has kindly
            placed within our reach.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">In a state so insignificant our commerce would be a prey
            to the wanton intermeddlings of all nations at war with each other;</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">who, having nothing to fear from us, would with little
            scruple or remorse, supply their wants by depredations on our property as often
            as it fell in their way.</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">The rights of neutrality will only be respected when they
            are defended by an adequate power.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">A nation, despicable by its weakness, forfeits even the
            privilege of being neutral</span>.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">Under a vigorous national government, the natural strength
            and resources of the country, directed to a common interest, would baffle all
            the combinations of European jealousy to restrain our growth.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">This situation would even take away the motive to such
            combinations, by inducing an impracticability of success.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">An active commerce, an extensive navigation, and a
            flourishing marine would then be the offspring of moral and physical
            necessity.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">We might defy the little arts of the little
            politicians to control or vary the irresistible and unchangeable course of
            nature.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">But in a state of disunion, these combinations might exist
            and might operate with success.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">It would be in the power of the maritime nations,
            availing themselves of our universal impotence, to prescribe the conditions of
            our political existence;</span><span class="trade" about="elitist"> and as they have
            a common interest in being our carriers, and still more in preventing our
            becoming theirs, they would in all probability combine to embarrass our
            navigation in such a manner as would in effect destroy it, and confine us to a
            PASSIVE COMMERCE.</span><span class="trade" about="elitist"> We should then be compelled to
            content ourselves with the first price of our commodities, and to see the
            profits of our trade snatched from us to enrich our enemies and
            persecutors.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">That unequaled spirit of enterprise, which signalizes the
            genius of the American merchants and navigators, and which is in itself an
            inexhaustible mine of national wealth, would be stifled and
            lost,</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> and poverty and disgrace would
            overspread a country which, with wisdom, might make herself the admiration and
            envy of the world.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="trade" about="populist">There are rights of great moment to the trade of America which
            are rights of the Union--I allude to the fisheries, to the navigation of the
            Western lakes, and to that of the Mississippi.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The dissolution of the Confederacy would give room for
            delicate questions concerning the future existence of these rights; which the
            interest of more powerful partners would hardly fail to solve to our
            disadvantage.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">The disposition of Spain with regard to the
            Mississippi needs no comment.</span> France and <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">Britain are concerned with us in the fisheries, and view them as
            of the utmost moment to their navigation.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">They, of course, would hardly remain long indifferent to that
            decided mastery, of which experience has shown us to be possessed in this
            valuable branch of traffic, and by which we are able to undersell those nations
            in their own markets.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">What more natural than that they should be disposed to
            exclude from the lists such dangerous competitors?</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="trade" about="elitist">This branch of trade ought not to be considered as a partial
            benefit.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">All the navigating States may, in different degrees,
            advantageously participate in it, and under circumstances of a greater extension
            of mercantile capital, would not be unlikely to do
            it.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> As a nursery of seamen, it
            now is, or when time shall have more nearly assimilated the principles of
            navigation in the several States, will become, a universal
            resource.</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">To the establishment of a navy, it must be
            indispensable.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="military" about="elitist">To this great national object, a NAVY, union will contribute
            in various ways. Every institution will grow and flourish in proportion to the
            quantity and extent of the means concentred towards its formation and
            support.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">A navy of the United States, as it would embrace the
            resources of all, is an object far less remote than a navy of any single State
            or partial confederacy, which would only embrace the resources of a single
            part.</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">It happens, indeed, that different portions of confederated
            America possess each some peculiar advantage for this essential
            establishment.</span><span class="military" about="elitist"> The more southern States
            furnish in greater abundance certain kinds of naval stores--tar, pitch, and
            turpentine.</span>
         <span class="military" about="elitist">Their wood for the construction of ships is also of a more
            solid and lasting texture.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The difference in the duration of the ships of which the
            navy might be composed, if chiefly constructed of Southern wood, would be of
            signal importance, either in the view of naval strength or of national
            economy.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">Some of the Southern and of the Middle States yield a
            greater plenty of iron, and of better quality.</span><span class="military" about="elitist"> Seamen must chiefly be drawn from the Northern
            hive.</span><span class="military" about="elitist"> The necessity of naval protection to
            external or maritime commerce does not require a particular elucidation, no more
            than the conduciveness of that species of commerce to the prosperity of a
            navy.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="trade" about="elitist">An unrestrained intercourse between the States themselves will
            advance the trade of each by an interchange of their respective productions, not
            only for the supply of reciprocal wants at home, but for exportation to foreign
            markets.</span><span class="trade" about="elitist"> The veins of commerce in every part will
            be replenished, and will acquire additional motion and vigor from a free
            circulation of the commodities of every part.</span><span class="trade" about="elitist">
            Commercial enterprise will have much greater scope, from the diversity in the
            productions of different States.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">When the staple of one fails from a bad harvest or
            unproductive crop, it can call to its aid the staple of another.</span>
         <span class="trade" about="elitist">The variety, not less than the value, of products for
            exportation contributes to the activity of foreign commerce.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">It can be conducted upon much better terms with a large
            number of materials of a given value than with a small number of materials of
            the same value;</span><span class="trade" about="elitist"> arising from the competitions
            of trade and from the fluctations of markets.</span><span class="trade" about="elitist">
            Particular articles may be in great demand at certain periods, and unsalable at
            others;</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> but if there be a variety of
            articles, it can scarcely happen that they should all be at one time in the
            latter predicament, and on this account the operations of the merchant would be
            less liable to any considerable obstruction or
            stagnation.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> The speculative trader will
            at once perceive the force of these observations, and will acknowledge that the
            aggregate balance of the commerce of the United States would bid fair to be much
            more favorable than that of the thirteen States without union or with partial
            unions.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">It may perhaps be replied to this, that whether the States
            are united or disunited, there would still be an intimate intercourse between
            them which would answer the same ends;</span><span class="trade" about="elitist"> this
            intercourse would be fettered, interrupted, and narrowed by a multiplicity of
            causes, which in the course of these papers have been amply detailed.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">A unity of commercial, as well as political, interests,
            can only result from a unity of government.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p">There are other points of view in which this subject might be placed, of a striking
         and animating kind.<span class="significantPhrase" about="neither"> But they would lead us too far
            into the regions of futurity, and would involve topics not proper for a
            newspaper discussion.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">I shall briefly observe, that our situation invites and
            our interests prompt us to aim at an ascendant in the system of American
            affairs.</span><span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist"> The world may politically,
            as well as geographically, be divided into four parts, each having a distinct
            set of interests.</span>
         <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">Unhappily for the other three, Europe, by her arms and
            by her negotiations, by force and by fraud, has, in different degrees, extended
            her dominion over them all.</span><span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">
            Africa, Asia, and America, have successively felt her
            domination.</span><span class="foreignPolicy" about="populist"> The superiority she
            has long maintained has tempted her to plume herself as the Mistress of the
            World, and to consider the rest of mankind as created for her
            benefit.</span><span class="historicalComparison" about="populist"> Men admired as profound
            philosophers have, in direct terms, attributed to her inhabitants a physical
            superiority, and have gravely asserted that all animals, and with them the human
            species, degenerate in America--that even dogs cease to bark after having
            breathed awhile in our atmosphere.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="populist">Facts have too long supported these arrogant pretensions of the
            Europeans.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> It belongs to
            us to vindicate the honor of the human race, and to teach that assuming brother,
            moderation.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">Union will enable us to do it.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> Disunion will will add another victim to his
            triumphs.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> Let Americans disdain to be
            the instruments of European greatness! Let the thirteen States, bound together
            in a strict and indissoluble Union, concur in erecting one great American
            system, superior to the control of all transatlantic force or influence, and
            able to dictate the terms of the connection between the old and the new
            world!</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="closing" about="">PUBLIUS. <span class="quote" about="">Recherches philosophiques sur les Americains.</span></span>
      
      
      </body>
</html>