<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Federalist Papers</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-readerview.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>
         Title: FEDERALIST No. 12</h1>
      <h2>
         Subtitle: The Utility of the Union In Respect to Revenue</h2>
      <h3>
         Source: From the New York Packet.</h3>
      <h4>
         Author: HAMILTON</h4>
      <span class="address" about="">To the People of the State of New York:</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="neither">THE effects of Union upon the commercial prosperity of the
         States have been sufficiently delineated. Its tendency to promote the interests
         of revenue will be the subject of our present inquiry.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">The prosperity of commerce is now perceived and acknowledged by
         all enlightened statesmen to be the most useful as well as the most productive
         source of national wealth, and has accordingly become a primary object of their
         political cares.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">By multiplying the means of gratification, by promoting the
         introduction and circulation of the precious metals, those darling objects of
         human avarice and enterprise, it serves to vivify and invigorate the channels of
         industry, and to make them flow with greater activity and copiousness.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">The assiduous merchant, the laborious husbandman, the active
         mechanic, and the industrious manufacturer,--all orders of men, look forward
         with eager expectation and growing alacrity to this pleasing reward of their
         toils.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">The often-agitated question between agriculture and commerce
         has, from indubitable experience, received a decision which has silenced the
         rivalship that once subsisted between them, and has proved, to the satisfaction
         of their friends, that their interests are intimately blended and
         interwoven.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">It has been found in various countries that, in proportion as
         commerce has flourished, land has risen in value.</span> And how could it have
      happened otherwise? <span class="trade" about="elitist">Could that which procures a freer vent for
         the products of the earth, which furnishes new incitements to the cultivation of
         land, which is the most powerful instrument in increasing the quantity of money
         in a state--could that, in fine, which is the faithful handmaid of labor and
         industry, in every shape, fail to augment that article, which is the prolific
         parent of far the greatest part of the objects upon which they are
         exerted?</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">It is astonishing that so simple a truth should ever have had
         an adversary; and it is one, among a multitude of proofs, how apt a spirit of
         ill-informed jealousy, or of too great abstraction and refinement, is to lead
         men astray from the plainest truths of reason and conviction.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">The ability of a country to pay taxes must always be
         proportioned, in a great degree, to the quantity of money in circulation, and to
         the celerity with which it circulates.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">Commerce, contributing to both these objects, must of
         necessity render the payment of taxes easier, and facilitate the requisite
         supplies to the treasury.</span>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">The hereditary dominions of the Emperor of
         Germany contain a great extent of fertile, cultivated, and populous territory, a
         large proportion of which is situated in mild and luxuriant climates. In some
         parts of this territory are to be found the best gold and silver mines in
         Europe.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">And yet, from the want of the fostering influence of commerce,
         that monarch can boast but slender revenues.</span>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">He has several times been compelled to owe
         obligations to the pecuniary succors of other nations for the preservation of
         his essential interests, and is unable, upon the strength of his own resources,
         to sustain a long or continued war.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">But it is not in this aspect of the subject alone that
         Union will be seen to conduce to the purpose of revenue.</span> There are
      other points of view, in which its influence will appear more immediate and
      decisive. <span class="taxation" about="elitist">It is evident from the state of the country, from
         the habits of the people, from the experience we have had on the point itself,
         that it is impracticable to raise any very considerable sums by direct
         taxation.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">Tax laws have in vain been multiplied; new methods to
         enforce the collection have in vain been tried; the public expectation has been
         uniformly disappointed, and the treasuries of the States have remained
         empty.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">The popular system of administration inherent in the nature
         of popular government, coinciding with the real scarcity of money incident to a
         languid and mutilated state of trade, has hitherto defeated every experiment for
         extensive collections, and has at length taught the different legislatures the
         folly of attempting them.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">No person acquainted with what happens in other
         countries will be surprised at this circumstance.</span>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">In so opulent a nation as that of Britain,
         where direct taxes from superior wealth must be much more tolerable, and, from
         the vigor of the government, much more practicable, than in America, far the
         greatest part of the national revenue is derived from taxes of the indirect
         kind, from imposts, and from excises.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">Duties on imported articles form a large branch of this latter
         description.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">In America, it is evident that we must a long time depend for
         the means of revenue chiefly on such duties.</span> In most parts of it,
      excises must be confined within a narrow compass. <span class="significantPhrase" about="populist">The genius of the people will ill brook the inquisitive and peremptory spirit
         of excise laws.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="populist">The pockets of the farmers, on the other hand, will
         reluctantly yield but scanty supplies, in the unwelcome shape of impositions on
         their houses and lands; and personal property is too precarious and invisible a
         fund to be laid hold of in any other way than by the inperceptible agency of
         taxes on consumption.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">If these remarks have any foundation, that state of things
         which will best enable us to improve and extend so valuable a resource must be
         best adapted to our political welfare.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">And it cannot admit of a serious doubt, that this state
         of things must rest on the basis of a general Union.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">As far as this would be conducive to the interests of
         commerce, so far it must tend to the extension of the revenue to be drawn from
         that source.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">As far as it would contribute to rendering regulations for the
         collection of the duties more simple and efficacious, so far it must serve to
         answer the purposes of making the same rate of duties more productive, and of
         putting it into the power of the government to increase the rate without
         prejudice to trade.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The relative situation of these States; the number of
         rivers with which they are intersected, and of bays that wash there shores; the
         facility of communication in every direction; the affinity of language and
         manners; the familiar habits of intercourse;</span> --<span class="trade" about="elitist">all these are circumstances that would conspire to render an
         illicit trade between them a matter of little difficulty, and would insure
         frequent evasions of the commercial regulations of each other.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The separate States or confederacies would be
         necessitated by mutual jealousy to avoid the temptations to that kind of trade
         by the lowness of their duties.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The temper of our governments, for a long time to come,
         would not permit those rigorous precautions by which the European nations guard
         the avenues into their respective countries, as well by land as by
         water;</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">and which, even there, are found insufficient obstacles to the
         adventurous stratagems of avarice.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">In France, there is an army of patrols
         <span class="parenthesis" about="">as they are called</span> constantly employed to secure
         their fiscal regulations against the inroads of the dealers in contraband
         trade.</span> Mr. Neckar computes the number of these patrols at
      upwards of twenty thousand. <span class="trade" about="elitist">This shows the immense difficulty
         in preventing that species of traffic, where there is an inland communication,
         and places in a strong light the disadvantages with which the collection of
         duties in this country would be encumbered,</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">if by disunion the States should be placed in a
         situation, with respect to each other, resembling that of France with respect to
         her neighbors.</span>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">The arbitrary and vexatious powers with which
         the patrols are necessarily armed, would be intolerable in a free
         country.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">If, on the contrary, there be but one government pervading
         all the States, there will be, as to the principal part of our commerce, but ONE
         SIDE to guard--the ATLANTIC COAST.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">Vessels arriving directly from foreign countries, laden with
         valuable cargoes, would rarely choose to hazard themselves to the complicated
         and critical perils which would attend attempts to unlade prior to their coming
         into port.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">They would have to dread both the dangers of the coast, and of
         detection, as well after as before their arrival at the places of their final
         destination.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">An ordinary degree of vigilance would be competent to the
         prevention of any material infractions upon the rights of the revenue.</span>
      <span class="military" about="elitist">A few armed vessels, judiciously stationed at the entrances
         of our ports, might at a small expense be made useful sentinels of the
         laws.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">And the government having the same interest to provide
         against violations everywhere, the co-operation of its measures in each State
         would have a powerful tendency to render them effectual.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">Here also we should preserve by Union, an advantage which
         nature holds out to us, and which would be relinquished by
         separation.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">The United States lie at a great distance from Europe, and at
         a considerable distance from all other places with which they would have
         extensive connections of foreign trade.</span>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="elitist">The passage from them to us, in a few hours, or
         in a single night, as between the coasts of France and Britain, and of other
         neighboring nations, would be impracticable.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">This is a prodigious security against a direct contraband with
         foreign countries; but a circuitous contraband to one State, through the medium
         of another, would be both easy and safe.</span>
      <span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist">The difference between a direct importation from
         abroad, and an indirect importation through the channel of a neighboring State,
         in small parcels, according to time and opportunity, with the additional
         facilities of inland communication, must be palpable to every man of
         discernment.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">It is therefore evident, that one national government
         would be able, at much less expense, to extend the duties on imports, beyond
         comparison, further than would be practicable to the States separately, or to
         any partial confederacies.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="neither">Hitherto, I believe, it may safely be asserted, that these
         duties have not upon an average exceeded in any State three per cent.</span>
      <span class="historicalComparison" about="neither">In France they are estimated to be about
         fifteen per cent., and in Britain they exceed this
         proportion.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">There seems to be nothing to hinder their being increased in
         this country to at least treble their present amount.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">The single article of ardent spirits, under federal
         regulation, might be made to furnish a considerable revenue.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">Upon a ratio to the importation into this State, the whole
         quantity imported into the United States may be estimated at four millions of
         gallons; which, at a shilling per gallon, would produce two hundred thousand
         pounds.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">That article would well bear this rate of duty; and if it
         should tend to diminish the consumption of it, such an effect would be equally
         favorable to the agriculture, to the economy, to the morals, and to the health
         of the society.</span>
      <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither">There is, perhaps, nothing so much a subject of
         national extravagance as these spirits.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">What will be the consequence, if we are not able to
         avail ourselves of the resource in question in its full extent? A nation cannot
         long exist without revenues.</span>
      <span class="trade" about="elitist">Destitute of this essential support, it must resign its
         independence, and sink into the degraded condition of a province.</span>
      T<span class="trade" about="elitist">his is an extremity to which no government will of choice
         accede. Revenue, therefore, must be had at all events. In this country, if the
         principal part be not drawn from commerce, it must fall with oppressive weight
         upon land.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="populist">It has been already intimated that excises, in their true
         signification, are too little in unison with the feelings of the people, to
         admit of great use being made of that mode of taxation; nor, indeed, in the
         States where almost the sole employment is agriculture, are the objects proper
         for excise sufficiently numerous to permit very ample collections in that
         way.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">Personal estate <span class="parenthesis" about="">as has been before
            remarked</span>, from the difficulty in tracing it, cannot be
         subjected to large contributions, by any other means than by taxes on
         consumption.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">In populous cities, it may be enough the subject of
         conjecture, to occasion the oppression of individuals, without much aggregate
         benefit to the State; but beyond these circles, it must, in a great measure,
         escape the eye and the hand of the tax-gatherer.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">As the necessities of the State, nevertheless, must be
         satisfied in some mode or other, the defect of other resources must throw the
         principal weight of public burdens on the possessors of land.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">And as, on the other hand, the wants of the government
         can never obtain an adequate supply, unless all the sources of revenue are open
         to its demands, the finances of the community, under such embarrassments, cannot
         be put into a situation consistent with its respectability or its
         security.</span>
      <span class="taxation" about="elitist">Thus we shall not even have the consolations of a full
         treasury, to atone for the oppression of that valuable class of the citizens who
         are employed in the cultivation of the soil.</span>
      <span class="federalism" about="elitist">But public and private distress will keep pace with each
         other in gloomy concert; and unite in deploring the infatuation of those
         counsels which led to disunion.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="closing" about="">PUBLIUS.</span>
      </body>
</html>