<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Federalist Papers</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-readerview.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>
         Title: FEDERALIST No. 68</h1>
      <h2>
         Subtitle: The Mode of Electing the President</h2>
      <h3>
         Source: From the New York Packet.</h3>
      <h4>
         Author: HAMILTON</h4>
      <span class="address" about="">To the People of the State of New York:</span>
      THE mode of appointment of the Chief Magistrate of the United States is almost the
      only
      part of the system, of any consequence, which has escaped without severe censure,
      or which
      has received the slightest mark of approbation from its opponents. The most plausible
      of
      these, who has appeared in print, has even deigned to admit that the election of the
      President is pretty well guarded.1 I venture somewhat further, and hesitate not to
      affirm,
      that if the manner of it be not perfect, it is at least excellent. It unites in an
      eminent
      degree all the advantages, the union of which was to be wished for.<br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="executive" about="populist">It was desirable that the sense of the people should operate in the choice of the
         person to
         whom so important a trust was to be confided. This end will be answered by committing
         the
         right of making it, not to any preestablished body, but to men chosen by the people
         for the
         special purpose, and at the particular conjuncture.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be made by men most capable
      of
      analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and acting under circumstances favorable
      to
      deliberation, and to a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which
      were
      proper to govern their choice. <span class="executive" about="elitist">A small number of persons, selected by their fellow-citizens
         from the general mass, will be most likely to possess the information and discernment
         requisite to such complicated investigations.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      It was also peculiarly desirable to afford as little opportunity as possible to tumult
      and
      disorder. <span class="executive" about="populist">This evil was not least to be dreaded in the election of a magistrate, who was to
         have so important an agency in the administration of the government as the President
         of the
         United States. But the precautions which have been so happily concerted in the system
         under
         consideration, promise an effectual security against this mischief.</span> The choice of SEVERAL,
      to form an intermediate body of electors, will be much less apt to convulse the community
      with any extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice of ONE who was himself
      to be
      the final object of the public wishes. <span class="executive" about="populist">And as the electors, chosen in each State, are to
         assemble and vote in the State in which they are chosen, this detached and divided
         situation
         will expose them much less to heats and ferments, which might be communicated from
         them to
         the people, than if they were all to be convened at one time, in one place.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="executive" about="populist">Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle should be opposed
         to
         cabal, intrigue, and corruption.</span> These most deadly adversaries of republican government
      might naturally have been expected to make their approaches from more than one quarter,
      but
      chiefly from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper ascendant in our councils.
      How
      could they better gratify this, than by raising a creature of their own to the chief
      magistracy of the Union? But the convention have guarded against all danger of this
      sort,
      with the most provident and judicious attention. <span class="executive" about="populist">They have not made the appointment of the
         President to depend on any preexisting bodies of men, who might be tampered with beforehand
         to prostitute their votes; but they have referred it in the first instance to an immediate
         act of the people of America, to be exerted in the choice of persons for the temporary
         and
         sole purpose of making the appointment. And they have excluded from eligibility to
         this
         trust, all those who from situation might be suspected of too great devotion to the
         President in office. No senator, representative, or other person holding a place of
         trust or
         profit under the United States, can be of the numbers of the electors. Thus without
         corrupting the body of the people, the immediate agents in the election will at least
         enter
         upon the task free from any sinister bias.</span> Their transient existence, and their detached
      situation, already taken notice of, afford a satisfactory prospect of their continuing
      so,
      to the conclusion of it. The business of corruption, when it is to embrace so considerable
      a
      number of men, requires time as well as means. Nor would it be found easy suddenly
      to embark
      them, dispersed as they would be over thirteen States, in any combinations founded
      upon
      motives, which though they could not properly be denominated corrupt, might yet be
      of a
      nature to mislead them from their duty.<br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="executive" about="populist">Another and no less important desideratum was, that the Executive should be independent
         for
         his continuance in office on all but the people themselves. He might otherwise be
         tempted to
         sacrifice his duty to his complaisance for those whose favor was necessary to the
         duration
         of his official consequence.</span> This advantage will also be secured, by making his re-election
      to depend on a special body of representatives, deputed by the society for the single
      purpose of making the important choice.<br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="executive" about="populist">ll these advantages will happily combine in the plan devised by the convention; which
         is,
         that the people of each State shall choose a number of persons as electors, equal
         to the
         number of senators and representatives of such State in the national government, who
         shall
         assemble within the State, and vote for some fit person as President.</span> Their votes, thus
      given, are to be transmitted to the seat of the national government, and the person
      who may
      happen to have a majority of the whole number of votes will be the President. <span class="executive" about="both">But as a
         majority of the votes might not always happen to centre in one man, and as it might
         be
         unsafe to permit less than a majority to be conclusive, it is provided that, in such
         a
         contingency, the House of Representatives shall select out of the candidates who shall
         have
         the five highest number of votes, the man who in their opinion may be best qualified
         for the
         office.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="executive" about="elitist">The process of election affords a moral certainty, that the office of President will
         never
         fall to the lot of any man who is not in an eminent degree endowed with the requisite
         qualifications. Talents for low intrigue, and the little arts of popularity, may alone
         suffice to elevate a man to the first honors in a single State; but it will require
         other
         talents, and a different kind of merit, to establish him in the esteem and confidence
         of the
         whole Union, or of so considerable a portion of it as would be necessary to make him
         a
         successful candidate for the distinguished office of President of the United States.</span> It will
      not be too strong to say, that there will be a constant probability of seeing the
      station
      filled by characters pre-eminent for ability and virtue. And this will be thought
      no
      inconsiderable recommendation of the Constitution, by those who are able to estimate
      the
      share which the executive in every government must necessarily have in its good or
      ill
      administration. <span class="executive" about="elitist">Though we cannot acquiesce in the political heresy of the poet who says:
         "For forms of government let fools contest That which is best administered is best,"
         yet we
         may safely pronounce, that the true test of a good government is its aptitude and
         tendency
         to produce a good administration.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      The Vice-President is to be chosen in the same manner with the President; with this
      difference, that the Senate is to do, in respect to the former, what is to be done
      by the
      House of Representatives, in respect to the latter.<br/>
      <br/>
      The appointment of an extraordinary person, as Vice-President, has been objected to
      as
      superfluous, if not mischievous. It has been alleged, that it would have been preferable
      to
      have authorized the Senate to elect out of their own body an officer answering that
      description. But two considerations seem to justify the ideas of the convention in
      this
      respect. <span class="executive" about="populist">One is, that to secure at all times the possibility of a definite resolution of the
         body, it is necessary that the President should have only a casting vote.</span> And to take the
      senator of any State from his seat as senator, to place him in that of President of
      the
      Senate, would be to exchange, in regard to the State from which he came, a constant
      for a
      contingent vote. <span class="executive" about="elitist">The other consideration is, that as the Vice-President may occasionally
         become a substitute for the President, in the supreme executive magistracy, all the
         reasons
         which recommend the mode of election prescribed for the one, apply with great if not
         with
         equal force to the manner of appointing the other. It is remarkable that in this,
         as in most
         other instances, the objection which is made would lie against the constitution of
         this
         State. We have a Lieutenant-Governor, chosen by the people at large, who presides
         in the
         Senate, and is the constitutional substitute for the Governor, in casualties similar
         to
         those which would authorize the Vice-President to exercise the authorities and discharge
         the
         duties of the President.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="closing" about="">PUBLIUS.</span>
      </body>
</html>