<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Federalist Papers</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-readerview.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      
      
      
      <h1><span class="title">FEDERALIST No. 85</span></h1>
      
      <h2><span class="subtitle">Concluding Remarks</span></h2>
      
      <h3><span classe="source">From MCLEAN's Edition, New York.</span></h3>
      
      <h3><span class="author">HAMILTON</span></h3>
      
      
      <span class="address" about="">To the People of the State of New York:</span>
      <span class="p">ACCORDING to the formal division of the subject of these papers, announced in my
         first number, there would appear still to remain for discussion two points:
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">
            <span class="quote" about="">the analogy of the proposed government to your own State
               constitution,</span> and <span class="quote" about="">the additional security which its adoption
               will afford to republican government, to liberty, and to
               property.</span></span><span class="significantPhrase" about="neither"> But these heads
            have been so fully anticipated and exhausted in the progress of the work, that
            it would now scarcely be possible to do any thing more than repeat, in a more
            dilated form, what has been heretofore said, which the advanced stage of the
            question, and the time already spent upon it, conspire to
            forbid.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">It is remarkable, that the resemblance of the plan
            of the convention to the act which organizes the government of this State holds,
            not less with regard to many of the supposed defects, than to the real
            excellences of the former.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">Among the pretended defects are the re-eligibility
            of the Executive, the want of a council, the omission of a formal bill of
            rights, the omission of a provision respecting the liberty of the
            press.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> These and several others
            which have been noted in the course of our inquiries are as much chargeable on
            the existing constitution of this State, as on the one proposed for the Union;
            and a man must have slender pretensions to consistency, who can rail at the
            latter for imperfections which he finds no difficulty in excusing in the
            former.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> Nor indeed can there be a better
            proof of the insincerity and affectation of some of the zealous adversaries of
            the plan of the convention among us, who profess to be the devoted admirers of
            the government under which they live, than the fury with which they have
            attacked that plan, for matters in regard to which our own constitution is
            equally or perhaps more vulnerable.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="populist">The additional securities to republican government, to
            liberty and to property, to be derived from the adoption of the plan under
            consideration, consist chiefly in the restraints which the preservation of the
            Union will impose on local factions and insurrections, and on the ambition of
            powerful individuals in single States, who may acquire credit and influence
            enough, from leaders and favorites, to become the despots of the
            people;</span><span class="foreignPolicy" about="elitist"> in the diminution of the
            opportunities to foreign intrigue, which the dissolution of the Confederacy
            would invite and facilitate;</span><span class="military" about="elitist"> in the
            prevention of extensive military establishments, which could not fail to grow
            out of wars between the States in a disunited situation;</span>
         <span class="executive" about="elitist">in the express guaranty of a republican form of government
            to each;</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> in the absolute and universal
            exclusion of titles of nobility; and in the precautions against the repetition
            of those practices on the part of the State governments which have undermined
            the foundations of property and credit, have planted mutual distrust in the
            breasts of all classes of citizens, and have occasioned an almost universal
            prostration of morals.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p">Thus have I, fellow-citizens, executed the task I had assigned to myself; with what
         success, your conduct must determine. I trust at least you will admit that I have
         not failed in the assurance I gave you respecting the spirit with which my endeavors
         should be conducted. <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">I have addressed myself
            purely to your judgments, and have studiously avoided those asperities which are
            too apt to disgrace political disputants of all parties, and which have been not
            a little provoked by the language and conduct of the opponents of the
            Constitution.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> The charge
            of a conspiracy against the liberties of the people, which has been
            indiscriminately brought against the advocates of the plan, has something in it
            too wanton and too malignant, not to excite the indignation of every man who
            feels in his own bosom a refutation of the
            calumny.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> The perpetual
            changes which have been rung upon the wealthy, the well-born, and the great,
            have been such as to inspire the disgust of all sensible
            men.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> And the unwarrantable
            concealments and misrepresentations which have been in various ways practiced to
            keep the truth from the public eye, have been of a nature to demand the
            reprobation of all honest men.</span>
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">It is not impossible that these circumstances may
            have occasionally betrayed me into intemperances of expression which I did not
            intend; it is certain that I have frequently felt a struggle between sensibility
            and moderation; and if the former has in some instances prevailed, it must be my
            excuse that it has been neither often nor much.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="both">Let us now pause and ask ourselves whether, in the course of
            these papers, the proposed Constitution has not been satisfactorily vindicated
            from the aspersions thrown upon it; and whether it has not been shown to be
            worthy of the public approbation, and necessary to the public safety and
            prosperity.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="populist"> Every man is bound
            to answer these questions to himself, according to the best of his conscience
            and understanding, and to act agreeably to the genuine and sober dictates of his
            judgment. This is a duty from which nothing can give him a dispensation. 'T is
            one that he is called upon, nay, constrained by all the obligations that form
            the bands of society, to discharge sincerely and
            honestly.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> No partial motive, no
            particular interest, no pride of opinion, no temporary passion or prejudice,
            will justify to himself, to his country, or to his posterity, an improper
            election of the part he is to act. Let him beware of an obstinate adherence to
            party; let him reflect that the object upon which he is to decide is not a
            particular interest of the community, but the very existence of the nation; and
            let him remember that a majority of America has already given its sanction to
            the plan which he is to approve or reject.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p">I shall not dissemble that I feel an entire confidence in the arguments which
         recommend the proposed system to your adoption, and that I am unable to discern any
         real force in those by which it has been opposed.<span class="federalism" about="elitist"> I am
            persuaded that it is the best which our political situation, habits, and
            opinions will admit, and superior to any the revolution has
            produced.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p">Concessions on the part of the friends of the plan, that it has not a claim to
         absolute perfection, have afforded matter of no small triumph to its enemies.
         <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">
            <span class="quote" about="">Why,</span> say they, <span class="quote" about="">should we adopt an imperfect thing? Why not
               amend it and make it perfect before it is irrevocably established?</span>
            This may be plausible enough, but it is only plausible.</span> In
         the first place I remark, that the extent of these concessions has been greatly
         exaggerated.<span class="federalism" about="elitist"> They have been stated as amounting to an
            admission that the plan is radically defective, and that without material
            alterations the rights and the interests of the community cannot be safely
            confided to it.</span> This, as far as I have understood the meaning of
         those who make the concessions, is an entire perversion of their sense.<span class="federalism" about="elitist"> No advocate of the measure can be found, who will not declare as
            his sentiment, that the system, though it may not be perfect in every part, is,
            upon the whole, a good one; is the best that the present views and circumstances
            of the country will permit; and is such an one as promises every species of
            security which a reasonable people can desire.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">I answer in the next place, that I should esteem it the
            extreme of imprudence to prolong the precarious state of our national affairs,
            and to expose the Union to the jeopardy of successive experiments, in the
            chimerical pursuit of a perfect plan.</span> I never expect to see a
         perfect work from imperfect man<span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">. The result of the
            deliberations of all collective bodies must necessarily be a compound, as well
            of the errors and prejudices, as of the good sense and wisdom, of the
            individuals of whom they are composed.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The compacts which are to embrace thirteen distinct
            States in a common bond of amity and union, must as necessarily be a compromise
            of as many dissimilar interests and inclinations.</span> How can
         perfection spring from such materials?</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">The reasons assigned in an excellent little pamphlet
            lately published in this city, are unanswerable to show the utter improbability
            of assembling a new convention, under circumstances in any degree so favorable
            to a happy issue, as those in which the late convention met, deliberated, and
            concluded.</span> I will not repeat the arguments there used, as I presume
         the production itself has had an extensive circulation. It is certainly well worthy
         the perusal of every friend to his country. <span class="significantPhrase" about="neither">There
            is, however, one point of light in which the subject of amendments still remains
            to be considered, and in which it has not yet been exhibited to public
            view.</span> I cannot resolve to conclude without first taking a
         survey of it in this aspect.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">It appears to me susceptible of absolute
            demonstration, that it will be far more easy to obtain subsequent than previous
            amendments to the Constitution.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">The moment an alteration is made in the present plan, it
            becomes, to the purpose of adoption, a new one, and must undergo a new decision
            of each State. To its complete establishment throughout the Union, it will
            therefore require the concurrence of thirteen States.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> If, on the contrary, the Constitution proposed should once be
            ratified by all the States as it stands, alterations in it may at any time be
            effected by nine States. Here, then, the chances are as thirteen to nine in
            favor of subsequent amendment, rather than of the original adoption of an entire
            system.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p">This is not all. <span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist">Every Constitution for the United
            States must inevitably consist of a great variety of particulars, in which
            thirteen independent States are to be accommodated in their interests or
            opinions of interest.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">We may of course expect to see, in any body of men
            charged with its original formation, very different combinations of the parts
            upon different points. Many of those who form a majority on one question, may
            become the minority on a second, and an association dissimilar to either may
            constitute the majority on a third.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist">
            Hence the necessity of moulding and arranging all the particulars which are to
            compose the whole, in such a manner as to satisfy all the parties to the
            compact; and hence, also, an immense multiplication of difficulties and
            casualties in obtaining the collective assent to a final act.</span> The
         degree of that multiplication must evidently be in a ratio to the number of
         particulars and the number of parties.</span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">But every amendment to the Constitution, if once
            established, would be a single proposition, and might be brought forward singly.
            There would then be no necessity for management or compromise, in relation to
            any other point no giving nor taking. The will of the requisite number would at
            once bring the matter to a decisive issue.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist"> And consequently, whenever nine, or rather ten States,
            were united in the desire of a particular amendment, that amendment must
            infallibly take place.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> There can,
            therefore, be no comparison between the facility of affecting an amendment, and
            that of establishing in the first instance a complete
            Constitution.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="significantPhrase" about="populist">In opposition to the probability of subsequent
            amendments, it has been urged that the persons delegated to the administration
            of the national government will always be disinclined to yield up any portion of
            the authority of which they were once possessed.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> For my own part I acknowledge a thorough conviction that any
            amendments which may, upon mature consideration, be thought useful, will be
            applicable to the organization of the government, not to the mass of its powers;
            and on this account alone, I think there is no weight in the observation just
            stated.</span> I also think there is little weight in it on another
         account.<span class="federalism" about="elitist"> The intrinsic difficulty of governing thirteen
            States at any rate, independent of calculations upon an ordinary degree of
            public spirit and integrity, will, in my opinion constantly impose on the
            national rulers the necessity of a spirit of accommodation to the reasonable
            expectations of their constituents.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">But there is yet a further consideration, which proves
            beyond the possibility of a doubt, that the observation is futile. It is this
            that the national rulers, whenever nine States concur, will have no option upon
            the subject.</span>
         <span class="legislature" about="elitist">By the fifth article of the plan, the Congress will be
            obliged <span class="quote" about="">on the application of the legislatures of two thirds of the
               States, which at present amount to nine, to call a convention for proposing
               amendments, which shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as part of
               the Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the
               States, or by conventions in three fourths
               thereof.</span></span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> The words of
            this article are peremptory. The Congress <span class="quote" about="">shall call a
               convention.</span> Nothing in this particular is left to the discretion of
            that body. And of consequence, all the declamation about the disinclination to a
            change vanishes in air.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> Nor
            however difficult it may be supposed to unite two thirds or three fourths of the
            State legislatures, in amendments which may affect local interests, can there be
            any room to apprehend any such difficulty in a union on points which are merely
            relative to the general liberty or security of the
            people.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> We may safely rely on the
            disposition of the State legislatures to erect barriers against the
            encroachments of the national authority.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p">If the foregoing argument is a fallacy, certain it is that I am myself deceived by
         it, for it is, in my conception, one of those rare instances in which a political
         truth can be brought to the test of a mathematical demonstration. <span class="federalism" about="elitist">Those who see the matter in the same light with me, however
            zealous they may be for amendments, must agree in the propriety of a previous
            adoption, as the most direct road to their own object.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="p"><span class="federalism" about="elitist">The zeal for attempts to amend, prior to the establishment
            of the Constitution, must abate in every man who is ready to accede to the truth
            of the following observations of a writer equally solid and ingenious: <span class="quote" about="">To
               balance a large state or society Usays hee, whether monarchical or
               republican, on general laws, is a work of so great difficulty, that no human
               genius, however comprehensive, is able, by the mere dint of reason and
               reflection, to effect it. The judgments of many must unite in the work;
               experience must guide their labor; time must bring it to perfection, and the
               feeling of inconveniences must correct the mistakes which they INEVITABLY
               fall into in their first trials and
               experiments.</span></span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> These judicious
            reflections contain a lesson of moderation to all the sincere lovers of the
            Union, and ought to put them upon their guard against hazarding anarchy, civil
            war, a perpetual alienation of the States from each other, and perhaps the
            military despotism of a victorious demagogue, in the pursuit of what they are
            not likely to obtain, but from time and
            experience.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> It may be in me a
            defect of political fortitude, but I acknowledge that I cannot entertain an
            equal tranquillity with those who affect to treat the dangers of a longer
            continuance in our present situation as imaginary.</span>
         <span class="federalism" about="elitist">A nation, without a national government, is, in my view,
            an awful spectacle.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="elitist"> The
            establishment of a Constitution, in time of profound peace, by the voluntary
            consent of a whole people, is a prodigy, to the completion of which I look
            forward with trembling anxiety.</span><span class="federalism" about="elitist"> I
            can reconcile it to no rules of prudence to let go the hold we now have, in so
            arduous an enterprise, upon seven out of the thirteen States, and after having
            passed over so considerable a part of the ground, to recommence the
            course.</span><span class="significantPhrase" about="populist"> I dread the more the
            consequences of new attempts, because I know that powerful individuals, in this
            and in other States, are enemies to a general national government in every
            possible shape.</span></span><br/>
      <br/>
      <span class="closing" about="">PUBLIUS.</span>
      
      
      </body>
</html>