<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Federalist Papers: An Analysis</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-html.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="header.xhtml"-->
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"-->
        <div class="content">
            <div class="textbox">
                <h2>Analysis</h2>
                <p>Overall, the Federalist Papers are an interesting collection of documents because
                    of its density but also its reach to various topics of government and politics.
                    These documents could be analyzed in numerous ways. For instance, network
                    analysis would be a very useful tool to see connections to specific themes and
                    topics. However, for this project, we decided to use MALLET and topic-modeling
                    as our primary method to analyse these documents in order to help answer our
                    research question.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <h2>Our Methods:</h2>
                <p>We chose approximately half of the papers chosen by Hamilton and chose them on
                    the basis of content. Many of his papers were additions to a certain topic. So,
                    to have the ability to use all topics, some were taken out for the sake of time.
                    We identified thirteen element tags that specified the topic of content. These
                    were features of government like the judiciary, executive, military, taxation,
                    etc. Within those elements were four attributes: "elitist", "populist", "both",
                    and "neither". These indicate the tone and type of statement/belief Hamilton
                    possesses within a certain element. This combination is a way to track and
                    analyze his views and opinions on certain aspects of government. We created our
                    markup in XML, validated the papers via a RelaxNG schema, and used MALLET for
                    topic-modeling, which would provide a visual of the content within the papers
                    that was vital towards the comparison.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <h2>Elements and Attributes</h2>
                <p>For this project, we assigned and identified thirteen relevant element tags that
                    were the primary component of our markup. These are the following elements and
                    their meaning:</p>
                <p><b>executive:</b> text tagged with this element related to any statement
                    concerning the executive branch of the US government.</p>
                <p><b>judicial:</b> related to any statement concerning the judicial branch or court
                    system.</p>
                <p><b>legislature:</b> any statement, set of statements, or phrases regarding the
                    legislative branch or its implied powers. </p>
                <p><b>military:</b> any content relating to military action or its composition.</p>
                <p><b>taxation:</b> text tagged related to taxes, economic policy of the federal
                    government, and opinions on historical views such as the excessive taxes that
                    motivated a rebellious British colony.</p>
                <p><b>trade:</b> anything relating to commerce or economic activity that dealt with
                    trade.</p>
                <p><b>foreignPolicy:</b> anything that related to diplomatic relations with other
                    nations (which was mostly Great Britain), along with its varying philosophies
                    and approaches to foreign policy.</p>
                <p><b>liberty:</b> any statement or phrase relating to individual freedom or rights.
                    This not just applied to the general masses, but also the powerful few.</p>
                <p><b>federalism:</b> tagged phrases or statements regarding the powers of
                    government and the separation of duties and powers of the federal and state
                    levels of government.</p>
                <p><b>historicalComparison:</b> any content of the letters comparing the current
                    situation of the colonies to Britian or other governments.</p>
                <p><b>significantPhrase:</b> writing that possessed key information that formed an
                    opinion on a certain topic. These statements did not have anything to do with
                    government, rather they implied a view relating to humanity or morals.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <h2>Our Sources:</h2>
                <p>We used a variety of sources for the research and analysis of this project. We
                    found an XML document of all 85 Federalist Papers from Github. Specifically, the
                    federalist-bookworm: https://github.com/bmschmidt/federalist-bookworm. We
                    narrowed our markup documents by utilizing the Library of Congress online
                    resource/database of the Federalist Papers, which show the author and provide a
                    small summary of each paper. From there, we marked up the 24 papers we chose
                    with the elements and attributes created, along with changing the metadata and
                    the root element. Next, we created an RelaxNG Schema and conducted a batch
                    validation across all 24 papers.</p>
                <p>We used governmental resources such as the Library of Congress's website that
                    displays the corpus of documents to indicate which of the three founding
                    father's wrote which paper. Because they all wrote under the pen name "Publius",
                    latin meaning "the people", it would have been virtually impossible to know who
                    wrote each paper. This was vital for our selection of documents for our
                    analysis.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="license.xhtml"-->
    </body>
</html>
