<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Federalist Papers: An Analysis</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-html.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="header.xhtml"-->
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"-->
        <div class="content">
            <div class="textbox">
                <h2>Conclusion</h2>
                <p>Given the nature of the writing style Hamilton had along with the goals of our
                    project, it is really difficult to narrow down the markup to be more precise. We
                    would have preferred to have more precise markup that contained more tagging and
                    the markup itself to be more precise.</p>
                <p>This was a difficult task since Hamilton would take up to entire paragraphs to
                    make a point about a key issue / opinion. So, the nature of the writing is
                    difficult to tag.</p>
                <p>If we were to do it again, we would spend more time going over individual markup
                    to make sure it was more precise and more fruitful. Meaning, it contained a
                    wider variety of elements. Given that three individuals completed the markup,
                    variation and levels of error are bound to occur. In addition, this implies that
                    there are three different sources anf thus different opinions on what certain
                    phrases and statements mean.</p>

            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <h2>What did the data tell us?</h2>
                <p>Hamilton was a known elitist snob who thought the opposite on many key political
                    views. Namely, he envisaged a strong executive and legislative branch, with the
                    ability to tax and wage war on other countries. Given these political beliefs,
                    it was surprising to see results that Hamilton did possess and hold views that
                    the public supported.</p>
                <p>The data also supported some of these ideas. It showed that his notable
                    opposition to a bill of rights truly consisted of elitist rhetoric. It also
                    supported the inverse. Specifically, because this elitist rhetoric supported
                    this belief held by Hamilton, personal rights such as a free trial by jury
                    showed strong populist views. The topics of the judiciary contained words such
                    as: equity, juries, and proper.</p>
                <p>These words are emblematic of fairness and justice, which is what the revolting
                    colonists believed the British Crown lacked.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <h2>Final Remarks</h2>
                <p>We certainly came into some difficulties when designing and completing this
                    project. Due to time constraints, we could not use all of the digital humanities
                    technologies that we desired to use, namely network analysis. We believed that
                    that would generate data and images that come closer to narrowing connections
                    between certain phrases to topics and themes.</p>
                <p>We (Nate, Patrick, and Shane), want to personally thank our project mentor, Evan
                    Ressel, and our course instructor, Dr. David Birnbaum for all their assistance
                    and time in making this project become a reality.</p>
                <p>We hope you enjoyed!</p>
            </div>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="license.xhtml"-->
    </body>
</html>
