<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Topic Modeling</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="topics_table_css.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="Federalist-html.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="header.xhtml"-->
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"-->
        <div class="content">
            <div class="textbox">
                <h1>Topic Modeling with MALLET</h1>
                <table border="1" class="center">
                    <caption>MALLET Topics</caption>
                    <tr>
                        <th>Topic</th>
                        <th>Key Words</th>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>Populism</td>
                        <td>government situation number country long interests large spirit support
                            experience weight establishment america resources extensive political
                            doubt safety individuals human</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>Government</td>
                        <td>legislative executive case body propriety period improper judges apt
                            negative magistrate good give exercise proceed bad eligible defense
                            provision receive</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>Legislative</td>
                        <td>rights expense bill liberty persons representatives congress
                            constitution press bills clause additional section business information
                            distance number extra declaration granted</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>Military</td>
                        <td>peace military time establishments army armies standing force garrisons
                            troops keeping views provision find confidence man popular happened view
                            formidable</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>Taxation</td>
                        <td>duties clause imports tax taxes exports exclusive article authorities
                            lay laid taxation case section exercise sovereignty restriction declares
                            concurrent repugnancy</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>Executive</td>
                        <td>president governor king britain office york magistrate appointment chief
                            officers single united executive punishment power treason impeachment
                            treaties liable actual</td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>Judicial</td>
                        <td>cases jury trial courts jurisdiction law court mode state equity plan
                            proper case admiralty cognizance juries judiciary judicial convention
                            criminal</td>
                    </tr>
                </table>
                <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <!--#include virtual="SVG/populist.svg"-->
                <p> This graph shows the frequency of the MALLET generated topic that we have
                    associated with Populist views throughout each Federalist Paper that we
                    examined. The key words that make up this topic are: government, situation,
                    number, country, long, interests, large, spirit, support, experience, weight,
                    establishment, america, resources, extensive, political, doubt, safety,
                    individuals, and human.</p>
                <p>Each bar on the graph represents the the frequency in the given paper that words
                    from this specific topic appear together. You will see that this topic,
                    populism, is seen much more frequently in some papers than others, such as
                    Federalist Papers 11 and 12, which both show a topic relevance of almost 20%,
                    which is pretty significant. Given that 11 and 12 dealt with the military and
                    revenue, it is interesting that Hamilton's rhetoric and writing was reflecting
                    populist / commonly held ideas. However, looking at 67, which deals with the
                    executive, there is a low topic relevance. This makes sense because the working
                    class did not want a single figure with large amounts of power, because it
                    reflected too much of the British Crown. Looking at all the papers, there is a
                    consistent reference to populist ideas, which implies that Hamilton did support
                    some of the public's views on certain issues depending on the topic. He
                    certainly supported theirs relating to military matters, since he was an officer
                    in the Revolution and wanted a strong military / navy. </p>
                <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <!--#include virtual="SVG/government.svg"-->
                <p>This graph shows the frequency of the MALLET generated topic that we have
                    associated with government throughout each Federalist Paper that we examined.
                    The key words that make up this topic are: legislative, executive, case, body,
                    propriety, period, improper, judges, apt, negative, magistrate, good, give,
                    exercise, proceed, bad, eligible, defense, provision, and receive.</p>
                <p>Each bar on the graph represents the the frequency in the given paper that words
                    from this specific topic appear together. You will see that this topic,
                    government, is seen much more frequently in some papers than others, such as
                    Federalist Paper 73, which shows a topic relevance of over 40%, which is
                    extremely significant. The data aligns with the content of the Federalist
                    Papers. Even though it seems that government is too broad and that everything
                    could be under the topic "government", some papers concerned the actual
                    composition of government, which is what his reflects. Papers 73, 74, and 79,
                    dealt with the powers of the executive and judicial branches. This also shows
                    why other papers did not show such high figures. For example, 83, which
                    concerned the right to a trial by jury. Although this involves the judicial
                    branch, the content dealt more with the right itself, and its powers on society.
                    So, context and content of the papers is also something that we considered when
                    completing our markup. </p>
                <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <!--#include virtual="SVG/legislative.svg"-->
                <p>This graph shows the frequency of the MALLET generated topic that we have
                    associated with legislature throughout each Federalist Paper that we examined.
                    The key words that make up this topic are: rights, expense, bill, liberty,
                    persons, representatives, congress, constitution, press, bills, clause,
                    additional, section, business, information, distance, number, extra,
                    declaration, and granted.</p>
                <p>Each bar on the graph represents the the frequency in the given paper that words
                    from this specific topic appear together. You will see that this topic,
                    legislature, is seen much more frequently in some papers than others, such as
                    Federalist Paper 84, which shows a topic relevance of over 30%, which is pretty
                    significant. This graph and the topics that comprised it show a clear
                    correlation to the content of the Federalist Papers. Paper 84 is well-known as
                    being controversial because Hamilton states that he does not believe that a Bill
                    of Rights should be granted to citizens. This is certainly not a populist idea,
                    but the rhetoric of 84 involves much of the legislative branch, since it would
                    be responsible for formulating and passing the Bill of Rights. </p>
                <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <!--#include virtual="SVG/military.svg"-->
                <p>This graph shows the frequency of the MALLET generated topic that we have
                    associated with military throughout each Federalist Paper that we examined. The
                    key words that make up this topic are: peace, military, time, establishments,
                    army, armies, standing, force, garrisons, troops, keeping, views, provision,
                    find, confidence, man, popular, happened, view, and formidable.</p>
                <p>Each bar on the graph represents the the frequency in the given paper that words
                    from this specific topic appear together. You will see that this topic,
                    military, is seen much more frequently in some papers than others, such as
                    Federalist Papers 24 and 26, which show topic relevances of just over 40% and
                    just under 30%, respectively, which are both considered to be pretty
                    significant.</p>
                <p>The graph shows the accuracy of the topic modeling. Papers 24, 26, and 29 all
                    concentrated on the military and its role in government. It is clear that the
                    topic key words resemble aspects of the military. For instance, "peace" is
                    certainly relevant since the period Hamilton wrote the Federalist Papers in,
                    which was shortly after the Revolutionary War. While the US was vulnerable, they
                    wanted to keep at peace with other countries, especially Britian, for they were
                    still trying to compose their government strucutres. </p>
                <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <!--#include virtual="SVG/taxation.svg"-->
                <p>This graph shows the frequency of the MALLET generated topic that we have
                    associated with taxation throughout each Federalist Paper that we examined. The
                    key words that make up this topic are: duties, clause, imports, tax, taxes,
                    exports, exclusive, article, authorities, lay, laid, taxation, case, section,
                    exercise, sovereignty, restriction, declares, concurrent, and repugnancy.</p>
                <p>Each bar on the graph represents the the frequency in the given paper that words
                    from this specific topic appear together. You will see that this topic,
                    taxation, is seen much more frequently in some papers than others, such as
                    Federalist Paper 32, which shows a topic relevance of almost 60%, which is
                    extremely significant. Looking at the key words, they are commonly used to
                    describe the economy and taxation. Papers 30 - 32 dealt with these topics. It is
                    logical to not see any relevance to these key words in the later papers, for
                    instance 69 - 85, since they primarily concern the executive and judicial
                    branches and their powers / responsibilities. </p>
                <p>However, it is interesting to see key words like "repugnancy", "sovereignty", and
                    "restriction". These words when considering taxation all contain negative
                    connotations. Hamilton vocally believed that taxation was a necessity for
                    governments to exert power and order. So, it would be interesting to see whether
                    these words in the context of his writing</p>
                <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <!--#include virtual="SVG/executive.svg"-->
                <p>This graph shows the frequency of the MALLET generated topic that we have
                    associated with the Executive Branch throughout each Federalist Paper that we
                    examined. The key words that make up this topic are: president, governor, king,
                    britain, office, york, magistrate, appointment, chief, officers, single, united,
                    executive, punishment, power, treason, impeachment, treaties, liable, and
                    actual.</p>
                <p>Each bar on the graph represents the the frequency in the given paper that words
                    from this specific topic appear together. You will see that this topic, the
                    Executive Branch, is seen much more frequently in some papers than others, such
                    as Federalist Paper 69, which shows a topic relevance of over 50%, which is
                    extremely significant.</p>
                <p>The data implies that Hamilton really didn't mention the executive at all besides
                    on the papers that concerned the executive branch. Although the executive is
                    talked about more frequently and seems to be the most important issue among the
                    public, it is not as prevalent during this time. Considering such a low topic
                    relevance of populism in 69, the contrast with executive and having most of the
                    statements be elitist, this makes sense. Hamilton supported a stronger executive
                    branch with a present and authoritative leader. This significantly opposed the
                    ideas of the people who were fed up with the British King and its dogma. </p>
                <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="textbox">
                <!--#include virtual="SVG/judicial.svg"-->
                <p>This graph shows the frequency of the MALLET generated topic that we have
                    associated with the Judicial System throughout each Federalist Paper that we
                    examined. The key words that make up this topic are: cases, jury, trial, courts,
                    jurisdiction, law, court, mode, state, equity, plan, proper, case, admiralty, cognizance,
                    juries, judiciary, judicial, convention, and criminal.</p> <p>Each bar on the graph represents
                    the the frequency in the given paper that words from this specific topic appear
                    together. You will see that this topic, the Judiciary, is seen much more
                    frequently in some papers than others, such as Federalist Paper 83, which both
                    show a topic relevance of over 40%, which is pretty significant.</p> <p>Looking at the
                    graph, this only shows where the judiciary and statements regarding the
                    judiciary, appeared. Within these papers where topic relevance was high, there
                    was a majority of statements aligning with populist views. Hamilton's idea of
                    the judiciary was to provide fair and equal treatment to citizens, and commanded
                    a fair trial by jury. This was a popular view among the masses, hence aligning
                    with more populist views. However, this does not exclude the elitist view. Many
                    of these judiciary tags were tagged as "both", meaning they applied to the
                    elites and the masses. </p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
